# What is LoxSharp?

The book [Crafting Interpreters by Bob Nystrom](http://www.craftinginterpreters.com) details the creation of a toy programming language called "Lox." The full grammar for this toy language can be found [here](http://www.craftinginterpreters.com/appendix-i.html).

This project represents my traversal through this book (yet again). I have started this project bofore and attempted non-Java port such as in Kotlin, actually in Java, in Ruby and one attempt in Go so this is my latest effort, but now in C#. For various reasons I was sidetracked before completing the book by either issues I ran into using the language, disinterest or new shinies (most common). I plan to complete the Tree Walking Interpreter portion of the book in C# (this repo) and then repurpose my Go Tree Walking repo into the Bytecode VM portion (the book has you writing it in C).

**DISCLAIMER: This is not a serious project, this is not a serious language. This should not be used as a scripting language in a production application.**

# Contributions

Due to the nature of this as a guided project along side a book, at this time I will not be accepting any contributions. But feel free to file issues and point out any glaring errors you might have found in the source code as I would love to learn and address the issues.

# Deviations

At the end of certain chapters the author provides "Challenges," some of these challenges include adding in some feature to the language that either hasn't been implemented by that point or will not be addressed directly by the book. So here are the deviations I made and solutions I took to achieve them.

1. Chapter 4, Challenge 4: Scanning supports block comments. To achieve this I simply look for an asterisk ('\*') character following a forward-slash ('/') ('/\*'). Upon detecting this I begin scanning a block comment. To handle nested block comments, when I encounter another '/\*' sequence I increment a depth counter and when I encounter a closing sequence ('\*/') I decrement this depth counter. If I encounter a close and the counter is at zero (`0`) I then escape scanning a block comment and continue scanning the rest of the program.
1. Chapter 5, Generating AST: I opted not to implement the AST syntax generator in C# as the book has you implement in Java. My familarity with C# project structures and building C# applications outside of Visual Studio (this work was done on macOS with `dotnet`) prevented me from pursuing this. To avoid wasting time I could be using to continue the book learning how to build both applications in the same project folder I opted to just throw the AST generation into Ruby which made it quick and dirty. The Ruby code in `scripts/generate_ast.rb` is not pretty, nor clean, nor production quality and likely never will be. But it does the job and that's what matters for this project.
1. Chapter 5, Challenge 3: Reverse Polish Notation (RPN). I implemented a Reverse Polish Notation tree walker that stringifies expressions in the RPN format. This tree walker does not support statements as I opted not to continue supporting it when I reached that point in the book although for compilation reasons and posterity I continue adding the new additions to keep it inline with the `Expr.IVisitor` interface. Although now that I'm using version control this file may disappear in future commits.
1. Chapter 7, Challenge 2: Support string + non-string binary operations. I implemented a little bit of code to automatically stringify the right-hand side of a binary "+" expression if the left-hand side is a string and the right is not.
1. Chapter 7, Challenge 3: Error on division by zero. I raise an error if you attempt division by zero.
1. Chapter 8, Challenge 1: The REPL has been modified such that if you provide an expression the reuslt is printed, if you provide a statement nothing will be printed (unless that statement contains `print` of course).
1. Chapter 8, Challenge 2: Variables cannot be used before initialized. I opted to keep track of which variables appeared in a declaration with no initializer (`var a;`) as "uninitialized." If you assign them a value they are removed from this uninitialized set. If you attempt to fetch a variable and it has not been defined but is in the unitialized list then you will receive an error about using it before it's been initialized. This chains up the `Environment` tree accordingly as well.
1. Chapter 9, Challenge 3: Supporting `break` and `continue`. To do this I opted to leverage C# Exceptions. I know, Exceptions as control flow is bad, but hear me out. I don't _just use them as control flow_. From the beginning, first tokens had to be added to support these new keywords, then new keyword definitions. Next they had to be parsed so I added a `Stmt.LoopControl` which takes a token that can either be a `break` or `continue`. When the `Interpreter` visits a `Stmt.LoopControl` node it throws a `LoopControlException` with the token claiming that it was used in an invalid location. In `Interpreter.VisitWhileStmt` though, I wrap execution of the loop body in a `try` and catch this exception where I perform a `break`/`continue`. So in most case this error is an "unhandled exception" (rightfully so) but can be caught and handled in the correct location. A bit cheating, sure. The initial naive approach (just raising) caused an issue with the desurgared `for` into `while` where a `continue` would skip the increment logic that was tacked on to the end of the loop body in the desugaring process. To fix taht I inject (a very ugly solution probably) the increment step before any `continue`s using a recursive injection function that handles the statement types that matter, such as if's and nested blocks; however, I intentionally avoid recursing into `Stmt.While` nodes since a `break`/`continue` in there should affect that loop, not the current one.
1. Chapter 10, Challenge 2: I added support for Anonymous functions. They're considered expressions. The program `fun () {};` is "valid" (IMO) but would break because the function statement attempts to parse this and fails with no name. Since the parser will distinguish whether it's parsing a method or a function I opted to allow the statement parse for a function notice no name and parse as an anonymous function expression. This seems to allow it all to work out correctly.
